feat: Added mig guide (scf) (#553)
GetStream/stream-chat-flutter: docusaurus/docs/Flutter/guides/migration_guide_2_0.mdx

---
id: mig_guide_2_0
sidebar_position: 5
title: Migrating to 2.0 (Null-safety)
---

A Migration Guide For Switching To v2.0 Of The Flutter SDK

### Overview

v2.0 of the Stream Chat Flutter SDK brings along several changes - primarily making the SDK null-safe.
Null safety allows your apps to run faster, with fewer errors, and with less code.

Check [this link](https://flutter.dev/docs/null-safety) for more about Null Safety in Flutter.

This guide is intended to enumerate and better explain the changes in the SDK.

The changes will be listed by package and a concise changelog will follow with more info.

### Changelog of `stream_chat_flutter`

#### 🛑️ Breaking Changes from 1.5.4

* Migrate this package to null safety

* Renamed `ChannelImage` to `ChannelAvatar`

* Updated `StreamChatThemeData.reactionIcons` to accept custom builder

> * Renamed ColorTheme properties to reflect the purpose of the colors

Author: ```suggestion
* Renamed `ColorTheme` properties to reflect the purpose of the colors
```

messages in the builder - so you can now customize a single parameter without having to redo the
entire implementation. Please reform your builders to take into account the new format:

```
typedef MessageBuilder = Widget Function(
    BuildContext,
    MessageDetails,
    List<Message>,
    MessageWidget defaultMessageWidget,
    );
```

To tweak any of the default properties individually, you can use `defaultMessageWidget.copyWith()`.

### Changelog of `stream_chat_flutter_core`

#### 🛑️ Breaking Changes from 1.5.3

* Migrate this package to null safety
* `channelsBloc.queryChannels()`, `ChannelListCore` options param/property is removed in favor of individual params/properties
    * `options.state` -> `bool state`
    * `options.watch` -> `bool watch`
    * `options.presence` -> `bool presence`
* `usersBloc.queryUsers()`, `UserListCore` options param/property is removed in favor of individual params/properties
    * `options.presence` -> `bool presence`

#### ✅ Added

* Monitor connection using `connectivity_plus` package

#### 🐞 Fixed

* Minor fixes
* Performance improvements

### Migrating to 2.0 for `stream_chat_flutter_core`

> If you are migrating your full Flutter project to null-safety, first make sure you follow the

Author: ```suggestion
:::note
If you are migrating your full Flutter project to null-safety, first make sure you follow the
```

nomenclature. Make sure any old colors used from theme are changed over to the new theme color names:

    * `ColorTheme.black` -> `ColorTheme.textHighEmphasis`
    * `ColorTheme.grey` -> `ColorTheme.textLowEmphasis`
    * `ColorTheme.greyGainsboro` -> `ColorTheme.disabled`
    * `ColorTheme.greyWhisper` -> `ColorTheme.borders`
    * `ColorTheme.whiteSmoke` -> `ColorTheme.inputBg`
    * `ColorTheme.whiteSnow` -> `ColorTheme.appBg`
    * `ColorTheme.white` -> `ColorTheme.barsBg`
    * `ColorTheme.blueAlice` -> `ColorTheme.linkBg`
    * `ColorTheme.accentBlue` -> `ColorTheme.accentPrimary`
    * `ColorTheme.accentRed` -> `ColorTheme.accentError`
    * `ColorTheme.accentGreen` -> `ColorTheme.accentInfo`

3) We decided to make messages easier to customize and now supply the default implementation of the
messages in the builder - so you can now customize a single parameter without having to redo the
entire implementation. Please reform your builders to take into account the new format:

```
typedef MessageBuilder = Widget Function(
    BuildContext,
    MessageDetails,
    List<Message>,
    MessageWidget defaultMessageWidget,
    );
```

> Use `defaultMessageWidget.copyWith()` to edit any properties to make it much simpler to tweak the
> default implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tweak any of the default properties individually, you can use defaultMessageWidget.copyWith()
```

---
id: mig_guide_2_0
sidebar_position: 5
title: Migrating to 2.0 (Null-safety)
---

A Migration Guide For Switching To v2.0 Of The Flutter SDK

### Overview

v2.0 of the Stream Chat Flutter SDK brings along several changes - primarily making the SDK null-safe.
Null safety allows your apps to run faster, with fewer errors, and with less code.

Check [this link](https://flutter.dev/docs/null-safety) for more about Null Safety in Flutter.

This guide is intended to enumerate and better explain the changes in the SDK.

> The changes will be listed by package and a concise changelog will be followed by more info.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The changes will be listed by package and a concise changelog will follow with more info.
```

MessageWidget accepts a userAvatarBuilder
Added pinMessage ui support
Added MessageListView.threadSeparatorBuilder property
Added MessageInput.onError property to allow error handling
Added GalleryHeader/GalleryFooter theme classes

#### 🐞 Fixed

#483: Keyboard covers input text box when editing
message
Modals are shown using the nearest Navigator to make using the SDK easier in a nested navigator use case
#484: messages don't update without a reload
MessageListView not rendering if the user is not a member of the channel
Fix MessageInput overflow when there are no actions
Minor fixes and improvements

### Migrating to 2.0 for `stream_chat_flutter`

:::note
If you are migrating your full Flutter project to null-safety, first make sure you follow the
instructions from the [official Null Safety migration guide](https://dart.dev/null-safety/migration-guide).
:::

To migrate to v2.0 for `stream_chat_flutter`, first change the version of the package to the latest
null-safe version.

```yaml
dependencies:
  stream_chat_flutter: ^2.0.0
```

Upon doing this, all breaking changes from the package will take immediate effect. Here are steps to

> remedy the issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remedy the issues:
```

nomenclature. Make sure any old colors used from theme are changed over to the new theme color names:

    * ColorTheme.black -> ColorTheme.textHighEmphasis
    * ColorTheme.grey -> ColorTheme.textLowEmphasis
    * ColorTheme.greyGainsboro -> ColorTheme.disabled
    * ColorTheme.greyWhisper -> ColorTheme.borders
    * ColorTheme.whiteSmoke -> ColorTheme.inputBg
    * ColorTheme.whiteSnow -> ColorTheme.appBg
    * ColorTheme.white -> ColorTheme.barsBg
    * ColorTheme.blueAlice -> ColorTheme.linkBg
    * ColorTheme.accentBlue -> ColorTheme.accentPrimary
    * ColorTheme.accentRed -> ColorTheme.accentError
    * ColorTheme.accentGreen -> ColorTheme.accentInfo

3) We decided to make messages easier to customize and now supply the default implementation of the
messages in the builder - so you can now customize a single parameter without having to redo the
entire implementation. Please reform your builders to take into account the new format:

```
typedef MessageBuilder = Widget Function(
    BuildContext,
    MessageDetails,
    List<Message>,
    MessageWidget defaultMessageWidget,
    );
```

> Use `defaultMessageWidget.copyWith()` to edit any properties to make it much simpler to tweak the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To tweak any of the default properties individually, you can use defaultMessageWidget.copyWith()
```

default implementation.

### Changelog of `stream_chat_flutter_core`

#### 🛑️ Breaking Changes from 1.5.3

* Migrate this package to null safety

> * channelsBloc.queryChannels(), ChannelListCore options param/property is removed in favor of individual params/properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `channelsBloc.queryChannels()`, `ChannelListCore` options param/property is removed in favor of individual params/properties
```

### Changelog of `stream_chat`

#### 🛑️ Breaking Changes from 1.5.3

* Migrate this package to null safety
* `ConnectUserWithProvider` now requires `tokenProvider` as a required param. (Removed from the constructor)
* `client.disconnect()` is now divided into two different functions
    * `client.closeConnection()` -> for closing user websocket connection.
    * `client.disconnectUser()` -> for disconnecting user and resetting client state.
* `client.devToken()` now returns a Token model instead of String.
* `ApiError` is removed in favor of `StreamChatError`
    * `StreamChatError` -> parent type for all the stream errors.
    * `StreamWebSocketError` -> for user websocket related errors.
    * `StreamChatNetworkError` -> for network related errors.
* `client.queryChannels()`, `channel.query()` options param is removed in favor of individual params
    * `option.state` -> `bool state`
    * `option.watch` -> `bool watch`
    * `option.presence` -> `bool presence`
* `client.queryUsers()` options param is removed in favor of individual params
    * `option.presence` -> `bool presence`
* Added typed filters

#### 🐞 Fixed

* #369: Client does not return without internet connection

> * several minor fixes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Several minor fixes
```

> * performance improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Performance improvements
```

#### ✅ Added

* New Location enum is introduced for easily changing the client location/baseUrl.
* New client.openConnection() and client.closeConnection() is introduced to connect/disconnect user ws connection.
* New client.partialUpdateMessage and channel.partialUpdateMessage methods
* connectWebSocket parameter in connect user calls to use the client in "connection-less" mode.

#### 🔄 Changed

* baseURL is now deprecated in favor of using Location to change data location.

### Migrating to 2.0 for `stream_chat`

If you are migrating your full Flutter project to null-safety, first make sure you follow the
instructions from the [official Null Safety migration guide](https://dart.dev/null-safety/migration-guide).
:::

To migrate to v2.0 for `stream_chat`, first change the version of the package to the latest
null-safe version.

```yaml
dependencies:
  stream_chat: ^2.0.0
```

Upon doing this, all breaking changes from the package will take immediate effect. Here are steps to

> remedy the issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remedy the issues:
```

> 1) Change over the constructor of `connectUserWithProvider()` to the new format.

Reviewer: This line doesn't make clear what changes need to be made. What is the new format? Add some more detail.

> 2) We added more nuance to the `disconnectUser()` by adding two new methods - one to close the connection

Reviewer: We added more nuance to ~~the~~ `disconnectUser()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) We added more nuance to `disconnectUser()` by adding two new methods - one to close the connection
```

> and the other to disconnect the user. This allows more fine-grained control for diconnection.

Reviewer: > control ~~for~~ **of** diconnection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the other to disconnect the user. This allows more fine-grained control of disconnection.
```

    * client.closeConnection() -> for closing user websocket connection.
    * client.disconnectUser() -> for disconnecting user and resetting client state.

> 3) We refactored how we handle errors - new error types are now introduced instead of ApiError.

Reviewer: > new error types are now introduced instead of ApiError. 

Change to 

> new error types are now introduced that replace ApiError.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) We refactored how we handle errors - new error types are now introduced that replace ApiError.
```

    * StreamChatError -> parent type for all the stream errors.
    * StreamWebSocketError -> for user websocket related errors.
    * StreamChatNetworkError -> for network related errors.

> 4) We changed over from a map full of options to a more type safe and sound approach by changing over to explicit parameters.

Reviewer: > type-safe
with a dash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) We changed over from a map full of options to a more type-safe and sound approach by changing over to explicit parameters.
```

Use these explicit parameters in the query parameters instead of the option keys:

* client.queryChannels(), channel.query() options param is removed in favor of individual params
    * option.state -> bool state
    * option.watch -> bool watch
    * option.presence -> bool presence
* client.queryUsers() options param is removed in favor of individual params
    * option.presence -> bool presence

> 5) We added type safe filters to make filtering in the app easier. Change over the filters to the

Reviewer: type-safe with a dash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) We added type-safe filters to make filtering in the app easier. Change over the filters to the
```
